---
title: HTTP Verb Bypass - A simple trick to bypass 403
date: 2024-10-22 1:00:00
categories: [Writeup, BBP]
tags: [LHF]
---

# Introduction

It is often hard to find the first bug after starting bug hunting. In this blog I will introduce a
simple Low hanging fruit that could help you get started in your bug hunting career.

## 403 Bypass

403 is often a headache for us hunters. It often means that there are some juicy information on this endpoint, but we do not have the necessary credential to access it. There are actually many
tricks to bypass this, and one of the simplest tricks is to change the HTTP verb.

For example, sometimes an endpoint would accept both POST and GET requests, and serve the same response to both verbs while only blocking unauthenticated GET request.

If this is the case, you can then try to just change the GET request to POST request to try to bypass 403. 

## Automation

This is definitely a low-hanging fruit, but there are plenty of such issues in VDP programs. You can simply write an automation to look for these issues and report them if found. Though no money, it would offer you the necessary reputation points to get into private programs, which have much few competitions.

The automation is also simple. Get a list of endpoints, and just start issue GET requests. If you encounter a 403, then try the same requests using POST. If the result is not 403, then manually inspect it to see what is happening. If the response is different and the content is sensitive, bingo!
