---
title: From Report to Patch - Gitlab's Arbitrary GFM references rendered in Incident Timeline Events leak private resources
date: 2025-05-17 1:00:00
categories: [Digest, BBP]
tags: [Gitlab, authorization]
---

This [report](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/369429) is quite straightforward. Basically, attackers can create incidents and insert references to private or confidential issues or merge requests (e.g., `victim/project-a#1`), and the event description will reveal their titles—effectively leaking sensitive information. This flaw enables enumeration and data exposure of restricted content in private or confidential projects.
### Disclaimer

I am by no means an expert in ruby/bug bounty hunting/ruby on rails/source code review. As I explore hacking, I use writing and sharing blogs as a way to reinforce my understanding. The content below reflects my best effort to grasp the vulnerability, but it may not be entirely accurate.

### Patch
Commit: 2e18b59472b5a43921d39433e60038b0f254d123

Since the report is quite straightforward. Let's jump into the patch directly:
```diff
module Types
  module IncidentManagement
    class TimelineEventType < BaseObject
      graphql_name 'TimelineEventType'
      description 'Describes an incident management timeline event'

      authorize :read_incident_management_timeline_event
      
---   field :note_html,
---         GraphQL::Types::String,
---         null: true,
---         description: 'HTML note of the timeline event.'


 
+++   markdown_field :note_html, null: true, description: 'HTML note of the timeline event.'
    end
  end
end

```

What's surprising about this patch is that the problem actually lies in `graphql`. Viewing the report, I thought that the problem lies in the Banzai filter. However, the fix was actually on `graphql`. 

Upon retrospection, it makes sense. Banzai is responsible for rendering markdown. But this vulnerability lies in the `graphql` request which returns un-filtered note. So let's take a closer look at the patch.
### Patch Explanation

The diff shows a change in the `note_html` field definition:

- **Before**: The `note_html` field was defined as a simple `GraphQL::Types::String`, returning the raw HTML of the timeline event note without filtering.
- **After**: The field is replaced with `markdown_field` `:note_html`, a helper that processes the note through GitLab’s markdown rendering pipeline, including the Banzai filter.

### Why This Fixes the Issue

- The vulnerability stemmed from GraphQL returning unfiltered HTML that included sensitive data from references. The Banzai filter, which sanitizes and restricts markdown rendering to prevent unauthorized data exposure, wasn’t applied.
- By switching to `markdown_field`, the patch ensures that `note_html` is processed through the Banzai pipeline, which strips or sanitizes references to private resources, preventing the leakage of sensitive information.

That's it! See you next time!
